# Docker

Docker is a containerization platform that enables the packaging and deployment of applications in isolated environments. 

## Docker Compose
This is a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker applications. With Docker Compose, YAML files can be used to define the services and dependencies in an application, and then a single command can be run to start and stop all of the containers. This makes it easy to manage complex applications that consist of multiple containers.

## Layer Caching
Docker uses a layering system to manage changes to the filesystem in a container. When a change it made to a container, only the layers that are affected by those changes are modified. This allows Docker to reuse unchanged layers, which can significantly improve build times and reduce the size of images.

## Docker Hub
This is a cloud-based registry service that enables the storage and distribution Docker images. Docker Hub provides access to the images of other developers. Docker Hub can also be used to automate the build and testing of images.

## Dockerfiles
A Dockerfile is a text file that contains instructions for building a Docker image. It specifies the base image to use, the commands to run to set up the image, and any other dependencies or configuration that is needed. Dockerfiles can be used to automate the build process for images.

## Networking
Docker includes a built-in networking system that containers to be connected to each other and the external world. Docker can be used to define networks and connect containers to those networks, which makes it easy to manage the communication between containers.

## Volumes
A Docker volume is a persistent storage location that is stored outside of the container's filesystem. Volumes can be used to share data between containers, or to persist data even if the container is stopped or deleted. Volumes can be useful for storing data that is generated by a container, or for storing configuration files that need to be shared between multiple containers.
